# UMB_growth_biomass_analysis
Recreates figures and results from "Hydraulic Trait Strategies Lead to Divergent Tree Growth Responses to Multidecadal Climate Variability " using US-UMB AmeriFlux data, diameter growth and biomass increment dataset from associated forest plot, and drought indices.

Requires data downloaded from Ameriflux Network (both AmeriFlux BASE and FLUXNET, hourly and half-hourly, US-UMB, https://ameriflux.lbl.gov/data/download-data/).  

Run MainAnalysis.m to call all functions.

Description of functions:
- calcGrowthBiomassCount.m calculates mean annual diameter growth, mean annual biomass increment, and annual count of valid observations for each species, an/isohydric groupings, and all species from clean band dendrometer data (UMB_UMd_upload.csv).
- CalcSWC.m takes a weighted average of point soil moisture sensors and averages with integrated soil water content in order to maintain sample number over the study period.
- crossCorrEnvironmental.m records cross correlations between soil water content (SWC), vapor pressure deficit (VPD), photsynthetically active radition (PAR), temperature (TA), and Standardized Precipitation Index (SPI) at the standard meteorlogical season (DJF, MAM, JJA, SON) with heat maps and a text file.
- detrendGrowthBiomass.m detrends the mean annual diameter growth and biomass increment values generated by calcGrowthBiomassCount.m
- environmentalMean.m reads in downloaded data from Ameriflux and calculated three-month season means (DJF, MAM, JJA, SON) and growing/dormant season means of SWC, VPD, PAR, and TA. It also restructures SPI data from the SPI input file to match the other variables.
- normalGLM.m creates linear models comparing each season at a time lag of up to three years with trending or detrended biomass increment or diameter growth assuming normal distribution of data. Results are summarized in .xlsx tables and heatmaps.
- generateGraphs.m recreates figures 2-6.
- joinEnvironmentalShort.m adds columns for each season and lag of SWC, VPD, TA, PAR, and SPI to the clean band dendrometer data, matching year of growth observation with year of environmental variable.
- joinEnvironmentalShort_D.m functions similarly to joinEvironmentalShort_D.m, just using detrended environmental data.
